Adding content for the new Notifications plugin (#586)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _notifications-plugin/index.md

---
layout: default
title: Notifications
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
redirect_from:
  - /notifications-plugin/
---

# Notifications

> The notifications plugin provides a central location for all of your notifications from OpenSearch plugins. Using the plugin, you can configure which communication service you want to use as well as see relevant statistics and troubleshooting information. Currently, the plugin supports sending notifications from the Alerting and Index State Management (ISM) plugins.

Reviewer: Global note: In all files, please capitalize "Notifications" in "Notifications plugin". Same for "Alerting plugin".

> The notifications plugin provides a central location for all of your notifications from OpenSearch plugins. Using the plugin, you can configure which communication service you want to use as well as see relevant statistics and troubleshooting information. Currently, the plugin supports sending notifications from the Alerting and Index State Management (ISM) plugins.

Reviewer: Global note: In all files, please capitalize "Notifications" in "Notifications plugin". Same for "Alerting plugin".

You can use either OpenSearch Dashboards or the REST API to configure notifications. Dashboards offers a more organized way of selecting a channel type and selecting which OpenSearch plugin sources you want to use, whereas the REST API lets you programmatically define your notification channels for better versioning and reuse later on.

> 1. Use the Dashboards UI to first create a channel that receives notifications from other plugins. Supported communication channels include Amazon Chime, Amazon SNS, Email, Slack, and custom webhooks when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications. After you’ve configured your channel and plugin sources, send messages and start tracking your notifications from the notifications plugin’s Dashboard.

Author: Yeah, I agree we should explicitly state them. Added.

> 2. Use the Notifications REST API to configure all of the settings of your channel. To use the API, you must prepare your notification’s details beforehand, which contains the notification’s name, description, channel type, which OpenSearch plugins to use as sources, and other associated URLs or groups.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Use the Notifications REST API to configure all of the settings of your channel. Before you use the API, you must prepare your notification’s details that contain the notification’s name, description, channel type, which OpenSearch plugins to use as sources, and other associated URLs or groups.
```

## Create a channel

In OpenSearch Dashboards, choose **Notifications**, **Channels**, and **Create channel**.

1. In the **Name and description** section, specify a name and optional description for your channel.
2. In the **Configurations** section, select the channel type and enter the necessary information for each type. For more information about configuring a channel that uses Amazon SNS or emails, refer to the sections below. If you want to use Amazon Chime or Slack, you need to specify the webhook URL. For more information about using webhooks, see the documentation for [Slack](https://api.slack.com/messaging/webhooks) and [Amazon Chime](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/chime/latest/ug/webhooks.html).

> If you want to use custom webhooks, you must specify more information: parameters and headers. For example, if your endpoint requires basic authentication, you might need to add a header with a key of Authorization and a value of `Basic <Base64-encoded-credential-string>`. You might also need to change `Content-Type` to whatever your webhook requires. Popular values are `application/json`, `application/xml`, and `text/plain`.

Reviewer: Second sentence: I suggest changing to "you might need to add a header with an authorization key".

> If you want to use custom webhooks, you must specify more information: parameters and headers. For example, if your endpoint requires basic authentication, you might need to add a header with a key of Authorization and a value of `Basic <Base64-encoded-credential-string>`. You might also need to change `Content-Type` to whatever your webhook requires. Popular values are `application/json`, `application/xml`, and `text/plain`.

Reviewer: Second sentence: I suggest changing to "you might need to add a header with an authorization key".

This information is stored in plain text in the OpenSearch cluster. We will improve this design in the future, but for now, the encoded credentials (which are neither encrypted nor hashed) might be visible to other OpenSearch users.

1. In the **Availability** section, select the OpenSearch plugins you want to use with the notification channel.
2. Choose **Create**.

### Amazon SNS as a channel type

OpenSearch supports Amazon SNS for notifications. This integration with Amazon SNS means that, in addition to the other channel types, the notifications plugin can send emails, text messages, and even run AWS Lambda functions using SNS topics. For more information about Amazon SNS, see the [Amazon Simple Notification Service Developer Guide](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/sns/latest/dg/welcome.html).

The notifications plugin currently supports two ways of user authentication:

> 1. Providing the user with full access to Amazon SNS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Provide the user with full access to Amazon SNS.
```

> 2. Letting the user assume an IAM role that has permissions to Amazon SNS. Once you configure the notification channel to use the right Amazon SNS permissions, select the OpenSearch plugins that can trigger notifications.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Allow the user to assume an IAM role that has permissions to access Amazon SNS. Once you configure the notification channel to use the right Amazon SNS permissions, select the OpenSearch plugins that can trigger notifications.
```

### Provide full Amazon SNS access permissions

> If you want to provide full Amazon SNS access to the IAM user, ensure that the user has the following permissions.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

> If you want to provide full Amazon SNS access to the IAM user, ensure that the user has the following permissions.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Action": [
        "sns:*"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Assuming an IAM role with Amazon SNS permissions

If you want to let the user send notifications without directly having full permissions to Amazon SNS, let the user assume a role that does have the necessary permissions.

> The IAM user must have the following permissions to assume a role.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

> The IAM user must have the following permissions to assume a role.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:Describe*",
        "iam:ListRoles",
        "sts:AssumeRole"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

> Then add this policy into the IAM user’s trust relationship to actually assume the role.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

> Then add this policy into the IAM user’s trust relationship to actually assume the role.

Reviewer: Change the period to a colon.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
  {
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Principal": {
    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<arn_number>:user/<iam_username>",
    },
    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
  }
  ]
}
```

## Email as a channel type

> To send or receive notifications with emails, choose **Email** as the channel type. Next, select at least one sender and default recipient. To send notifications to more than a few people at a time, select a recipient group. If the Notifications plugin doesn’t currently have the necessary senders or groups, you can add them by first selecting **SMTP sender**, then choose **Create SMTP sender** or **Create recipient group**. Choose **SES sender** to use Amazon Simple Email Service (SES).

Author: Added that users can specify multiple email addresses.

### Create email sender

1. Specify a unique name to associate with the sender.

> 2. Enter an email address, and, if applicable, its host (for example, smtp.gmail.com), and the port. If you're using SES, enter the IAM role ARN of the AWS account to send notifications from, along with the region.

Reviewer: Remove the first comma. Remove the comma after the parenthetical. Change "SES" to "Amazon SES". If this is its first appearance on the page, define "ARN" as "Amazon Resource Name (ARN)". If "region" refers to an AWS Region, please change to "AWS Region."

> 2. Enter an email address, and, if applicable, its host (for example, smtp.gmail.com), and the port. If you're using SES, enter the IAM role ARN of the AWS account to send notifications from, along with the region.

Reviewer: Remove the first comma. Remove the comma after the parenthetical. Change "SES" to "Amazon SES". If this is its first appearance on the page, define "ARN" as "Amazon Resource Name (ARN)". If "region" refers to an AWS Region, please change to "AWS Region."

> 3. Choose an encryption method. Most email providers require SSL or TLS, which requires a username and password in the OpenSearch keystore. See [Authenticate sender account](#authenticate-sender-account) to learn more. Selecting an encryption method is only applicable if you're creating an SMTP sender.

Reviewer: Please define Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS). Change "requires" to "require". Change "username" to "user name".

> 3. Choose an encryption method. Most email providers require SSL or TLS, which requires a username and password in the OpenSearch keystore. See [Authenticate sender account](#authenticate-sender-account) to learn more. Selecting an encryption method is only applicable if you're creating an SMTP sender.

Reviewer: Please define Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and Transport Layer Security (TLS). Change "requires" to "require". Change "username" to "user name".

4. Choose **Create** to save the configuration and create the sender. You can create a sender before you add your credentials to the OpenSearch keystore; however, you must [authenticate each sender account](#authenticate-sender-account) before you use the sender in your channel configuration.

### Create email recipient group

1. After choosing **Create recipient group**, enter a unique name to associate with the email group and an optional description.
2. Select or enter the emails you want to add to the recipient group.
3. Choose **Create**.

### Authenticate sender account

> If your email provider requires SSL or TLS, you must authenticate each sender account before you can send an email. Enter these credentials in the OpenSearch keystore using the CLI. Run the following commands (in your OpenSearch directory) to enter your username and password. The &lt;sender_name&gt; is the name you entered for **Sender** earlier.

Reviewer: Please define command line interface (CLI). Change "username" to "user name".

> If your email provider requires SSL or TLS, you must authenticate each sender account before you can send an email. Enter these credentials in the OpenSearch keystore using the CLI. Run the following commands (in your OpenSearch directory) to enter your username and password. The &lt;sender_name&gt; is the name you entered for **Sender** earlier.

Reviewer: Please define command line interface (CLI). Change "username" to "user name".

```json
./bin/opensearch-keystore add plugins.alerting.destination.email.<sender_name>.username

> ./bin/opensearch-keystore add plugins.alerting.destination.email.<sender_name>.password

Reviewer 3: We don't recommend using these settings anymore. Notifications settings for email username and password are:

```
opensearch.notifications.core.email.<sender_name>.username
opensearch.notifications.core.email.<sender_name>.password
```

The Alerting ones you mentioned above are essentially deprecated and will be used as the fallback if the Notifications settings are not set. We're planning on removing the Alerting ones in 3.0 so we should encourage users to stop using them and move over to the Notifications setting namespace.

Author: Replaced with the notification settings.

```

> To change or update your credentials (after you’ve added them to the keystore on every node), call the reload API to automatically update those credentials without restarting OpenSearch:

Reviewer: Change the colon to a period.

> To change or update your credentials (after you’ve added them to the keystore on every node), call the reload API to automatically update those credentials without restarting OpenSearch:

Reviewer: Change the colon to a period.

---
layout: default
title: Notifications
nav_order: 1
has_children: false
redirect_from:
  - /notifications-plugin/
---

# Notifications

The Notifications plugin provides a central location for all of your notifications from OpenSearch plugins. Using the plugin, you can configure which communication service you want to use and see relevant statistics and troubleshooting information. Currently, the Alerting and ISM plugins have integrated with the Notifications plugin.

You can use either OpenSearch Dashboards or the REST API to configure notifications. Dashboards offers a more organized way of selecting a channel type and selecting which OpenSearch plugin sources you want to use, whereas the REST API lets you programmatically define your notification channels for better versioning and reuse later on.

> 1. Use the Dashboards UI to first create a channel that receives notifications from other plugins. Supported communication channels include Amazon Chime, Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES), email through SMTP, Slack, and custom webhooks when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications. After you’ve configured your channel and plugin sources, send messages and start tracking your notifications from the Notifications plugin's dashboard.

Author: Do you mean on line 14? Starting with that might be a bit misleading since users can't control how the Notification plugin sends notifications on the backend.

> 1. Use the Dashboards UI to first create a channel that receives notifications from other plugins. Supported communication channels include Amazon Chime, Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES), email through SMTP, Slack, and custom webhooks when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications. After you’ve configured your channel and plugin sources, send messages and start tracking your notifications from the Notifications plugin's dashboard.

Reviewer 4: I was referring to this sentence: Supported communication channels include Amazon Chime, Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES), email through SMTP, Slack, and custom webhooks when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications.

> 1. Use the Dashboards UI to first create a channel that receives notifications from other plugins. Supported communication channels include Amazon Chime, Amazon Simple Notification Service (Amazon SNS), Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES), email through SMTP, Slack, and custom webhooks when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications. After you’ve configured your channel and plugin sources, send messages and start tracking your notifications from the Notifications plugin's dashboard.

Author: Actually, I'll just take out "when selecting how you want the plugin to send notifications." I don't super like how it's there now that I read it again.

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Action": [
        "ec2:Describe*",
        "iam:ListRoles",
        "sts:AssumeRole"
      ],
      "Resource": "*"
    }
  ]
}
```

Then add this policy into the IAM user’s trust relationship to actually assume the role:

```json
{
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
  {
    "Effect": "Allow",
    "Principal": {
    "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::<arn_number>:user/<iam_username>",
    },
    "Action": "sts:AssumeRole"
  }
  ]
}
```

## Email as a channel type

To send or receive notifications with email, choose **Email** as the channel type. Next, select at least one sender and default recipient. To send notifications to more than a few people at a time, specify multiple email addresses or select a recipient group. If the Notifications plugin doesn’t currently have the necessary senders or groups, you can add them by first selecting **SMTP sender** and then choosing **Create SMTP sender** or **Create recipient group**. Choose **SES sender** to use Amazon Simple Email Service (Amazon SES).

### Create email sender

1. Specify a unique name to associate with the sender.

> 2. Enter an email address and, if applicable its host (for example, smtp.gmail.com), and the port. If you're using Amazon SES, enter the IAM role Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS account to send notifications from, along with the AWS Region.

Author: I actually had that before, but maybe I misinterpreted @natebower's comment. @natebower your thoughts?

> 2. Enter an email address and, if applicable its host (for example, smtp.gmail.com), and the port. If you're using Amazon SES, enter the IAM role Amazon Resource Name (ARN) of the AWS account to send notifications from, along with the AWS Region.

Reviewer: Heather is correct. However, the comma following the parenthetical should be removed.
